---
title: Use cases soil data 
---

A selection of use cases, combined with dedicated guidance on how to increase FAIR aspect of a data or knowledge publication.

- [Tabular Soil Observation Data](./tabular-data.md) is a common format to share Soil data.
- [Derived soil data](./derived-soil-data.md), such as soil property distribution predictions, agricultural decision support and soil health indicator changes are produced with conventional and pedometric approaches. An important factor to facilitate reuse is extensive description of lineage. Which source data and procedures have been used to derive the resulting product. 
- [Bonares](./bonares.md) is a repository for archiving results of long term field experiments. With each deposit contributors are invited to submit metadata at the dataset level, as well as at the column level; which phenomena is observed in the experiment, in which unit and with which procedure. 
- [Earth imagery](./earth-imagery.md) such as satelite and drone data are increasingly used to better understand soils and their interaction with climate, landscape and crops. Imagery data is often used as a predictor of soil property distribution. Due to their size and origin imagery data is usually not deposited in formal repositories, but available from mass storage such as Google Earth Engine, Copernicus or Amazon Cloud, which can be a challenge for citation of the material.
- [INSPIRE geopackage](./inspire-geopackage.md) for soil data is an approach to store data in a relational database while conforming to the INSPIRE Soil datamodel. Traditionally INSPIRE Soil Observation data were required to be shared using a dedicated xml encoding, which was quite a challenge for both data procucers and consumers. The Good Practice using GeoPackage specifically for soil data has been prepared by the EJP Soil H2020 programme. 
- [Project Websites and Knowledge Hubs](./knowledge-hubs-and-websites.md) benefit from archival of their content at various stages during and after the realisation and maintenance of the website. A deposit of the website content is persistently citable using DOI and the risk of information loss at website discontinuation is limited.
- [Soil vocabularies](./vocabularies.md) (glossaries) are commonly produced at the start of projects, to align definitions between project partners. Vocabularies are also an important driver of findability and interoperabilty.
- [Spectroscopy](./spectroscopy.md) is a novel approach to observe soil properties on a soil samples efficiently. The properties are predicted based on a library of reference samples which are assessed both with wet chemistry as well as spectrometry. A common practice is to deposit the spectra of the observations as part of the data as well as a reference to the spectral library used for the prediction. 